{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README\
\
1. SGEMS-UQ Compilation Instructions\
\
SGEMS-UQ requires the installation of SGEMS3.0. SGEMS-UQ has no further dependencies and can be compiled using qmake (or Visual Studio with Qt Add-in http://doc.qt.digia.com/vs-add-in/index.html). The order in which compilation must be completed is: 1. GsTL_item_model 2. sgems-metrics 3. mds-gui. The resulting shared libraries (or .dll files) must be placed in the sgems plugins/actions folder. Once SGEMS-UQ has been installed, the main SGEMS program can be started, and SGEMS-UQ can be started using Data Analysis -> Data Explorer (or simply Control-E). \
\
2. Data Generation\
The (Scripts->GenerateModels->Main.py) script can be used to generate appropriate facies, permeability and porosity values. The appropriate initial data and histograms can be found under InitialData. The results of the simulations are given in ProxyResults->raw. Scripts->ProcessResults->parseRawProxy.py is used to parse appropriate responses of interest into the SGEMS-UQ XML format. Likewise, the (Scripts->ProcessResults->copyFacieProjects.py and combineParameters.py) scripts are used to generate the appropriate SGEMS project. \
\
3. Using SGEMS-UQ\
In our particular example, the WCA.prj project can be loaded by simply dragging into the main SGEMS window. The SGEMS-UQ window can be initialized using Data Analysis -> Data Explorer (or simply Control-E). \
\
3 a) Plotting Response Data\
Under the SGEMS-UQ window selecting Response->View Responses brings up available grids, responses and realizations. Selecting any subset of the realizations and pressing plot will create a new window with the appropriate response plot.\
\
3 b) Creating MDS Space\
Responses->MDS Space shows a list of existing MDS spaces. Generating a new space can be done using the Create button. Once again available grids, realizations and responses are shown. Selecting an appropriate distance kernel for each response will generate the appropriate MDS Space.\
\
3 c) Visualizing MDS Space\
Selecting the desired MDS space and pressing Plot will create a new window with the visualization of the MDS space in 3D. Within the window k-means clustering can be performed in addition to parameter exploration.\
\
\
\
}